Question 1 : What is the default database system used in Laravel?
Answer : SQLite

Question 2 : Which command is used to create a Laravel Project?
Answer : - laravel new <projectname>  : If you download composer and laravel globally then use this
         - composer create-project --prefer-dist laravel/laravel projectname : If you didn't download laravel then use this command

Question 3 : Which method is used to redirect users in Laravel?
Answer : redirect()->route()

Question 4 : Which command is used to generate a new controller in laravel?
Answer : php artisan make:controller <controller_name>

Question 5 : Which command is used to roll back the last database migration?
Answer : php artisan migrate:rollback
        ex : php artisan migrate:rollback --step=2

Question 6 : Which method is used to define API routes in laravel?
Answer : Route::apiResource()
    This single line will generate API routes for CRUD operation (index, store, show, update, and destroy) on the post route

Question 7 : Which method is used in Eloquent to fetch the first record matching the query?
Answer : first()
    ex : $user User::where('email','example@example.com')->first();

Question 8 : Which HTTP status code is returned when laravel route is not found?
Answer : 404

Question 9 : Which directory in a laravel application contains middleware?
Answer : app/Http/Middleware

Question 10 :  What is the role of middleware in laravel?
Answer : A mechanism for filtering HTTP requests

Question 11 : How to make middleware in laravel?
Answer : php artisan make:middleware <Middleware_name>

Question 12 : Which function is used to send emails in laravel?
Answer : Mail

Question 13 : What is the purpose of the php artisan optimize command?
Answer : The php artisan optimize command in laravel is used to improve application performance by caching commonly used Components.
This command:  Compiles commonly used classes into a single file, reducing
Caches configuration files to avoid repeatedly loading and parsing them.
Caches routes to speed up route resolution.

Question 14 : which method is used to retrieve the old input value in Laravel forms?
Answer : old()

Question 15 : which method is used tp soft delete a record in Laravel ?
Answer : $model->delete()

Question 16 : What is the purpose of the php artisan route:cache command in laravel?
Answer : Caches and optimizes routes for faster performance
        generate route URLs dynamically

Question 17 : What is the purpose of the php artisan route:clear command in laravel ?
Answer : Clear the compiled route cache

Question 18 : Which API method is used for save operation in laravel ?
Answer : post

Question 19 : What is Laravel ?
Answer : A php framework where we can make API with php
        A Php framework for web develpoment
        Full stack framework

Question 20 : What is the default templating engine in laravel?
Answer : Blade

Question 21 : Can we use Twig templating engine in Laravel?
Answer : Yes, the default template engine used in symfony. Twig is fast, secure, and flexible. It has a sandbox mode to evalutate

Question 22 : Which file contains database connection setting in laravel?
Answer : .env

Question 23 : Which command is used to start the laravel server?
Answer : php artisan serve

Question 24 : What is the default route file in laravel ?
Answer : web.php

Question 25 : WHat method is used to define a GET route in laravel ?
Answer : Route::get()

Question 26 : Which middleware is used for user for user authentication in laravel?
Answer : A auth is default authentication routes

Question 27 : Which file registers middleware in laravel ?
Answer : app/http/Kernel.php

Question 28 : What method is used to return a view in a controller ?
Answer : return view(view_name')

Question 29: Waht is Blade template in laravel?
Answer : Blade is laravel built-in templating engine

Question 30 : Which method is used to validate a request in laravel?
Answer :1-  $request->validate()
        2- Validator::make()

Question 31 : Print a variable in Blade template in laravel?
Answer : {{ $variable }}

Question 32 : What command create a new model in laravel?
Answer : php artisan make:model Model_Name

Question 33 : How do you retrieve all records form a model ?
Answer : Model::all()

Question 34 : Which method finda a record by a primary key in Eloquent?
Answer : find()

Question 35 : What laravel feature prevents SQL injection?
Answer : SQL injection is a code technique that might destroy or make unwanted changes your database

Question 36 : How do you generate a new application key in laravel?
Answer : php artisan key:generate
        - primary used for encrypting and decrypting sesnstive data within your application

Question 37 : What command is used to create a job in laravel?
Answer : php artisan make:job Job_name
        - Jobs are used to handle tasks that should be executed in the background

Question 38 : Which database driver is used for laravel queue?
Answer : MySQl , Redis, Beanstalked

Question 39 : How do you extend a layout in Blade?
Answer : @extends('layout')

Question 40 : How do you include another Blade view inside a template?
Answer : @include('view_name')

Question 41 : What syntax is used to for loop blade template leravel?
Answer : @foreach ($items as $item)

Question 42 : How do you create a Blade Components?
Answer :php artisan make:component Component_name

Question 43 : What directive is used to check if a section exists?
Answer : @hasSection('sectionname')

Question 44 : What laravel package is used for file storage ?
Answer : Filesystem

Question 45 :  How do you store a file using laravel storage facade?
Answer : Storage::put('path/file.txt', 'content')

Question 46 : How do you return a JSON response in laravel ?
Answer : return response()->json($data);

Question 47 : Which middleware is used for API authentication in laravel ?
Answer :sanctum

Question 48 : How do define an API route in Laravel?
Answer : Route::get('/api/data', 'controller@method');
         Route::apiResource('resource', 'Controller');
         Route::get('/data/, 'Controller@method')->middleware('api');

Question 49 : What framework does laravel use for testing ?
Answer : PhpUnit

Question 50 : What command clears the application cache?
Answer : php artisan cache:clear
        - This command is used for clear all cache such as routes, view etc

Question 51 : How do you create a custom helper function in laravel ?
Answer : define it in helpers.php and include it in composer.json

Question 52 : What is a named route in laravel?
Answer : A named route in laravel is a way to assign a name to a specific route, masking it easier to generate URLs or red.

Question 53 : which method is used to define a named route in laravel?
Answer : Route::get()->name()

Question 54 : What is the purpose of CSRF protection in laravel?
Answer : Web attack that tricks a user into performing unwanted actions on a website.

Question 55 : What command is used to list all registered routes?
Answer : php artisan route:list

Question 56 : Which middleware is used for verifying email in laravel authentication ?
Answer : verify

Question 57 : WHat is the default database engine in laravel ?
Answer : None (Configurable)

Question 58 : How do you specify a custom primary key in Eloquent?
Answer : Define $primaryKey in the model

Question 59 : What method updates a record in laravel Eloquent?
Answer : update()

Question 60 : What is the purpose of laravel's timestamps property in a model?
Answer : Enable create_at and update_at colums

Question 61 : Which method is used to delete a record in Eloquent ?
Answer : delete()

Question 62 : What is the purpose of laravel Horizon?
Answer : Laravel Horizon is a tool within the laravel framework designed to monitor and manage background job queues.

Question 63 : What is the purpose of dd() function in laravel?
Answer : Debug and die

Question 64 : What tool does laravel use for debugging?
Answer : Laravel Debuger
         Telescope
         Xdebug

Question 65 : What hashing algorithm does laravel use by default?
Answer : Bcypt

Question 66 : How do you hash a password in Laravel ?
 Answer : Hash::make('password')

Question 67 : How do you Enable API authentication in laravel?
Answer : laravel Passport
         Laravel sanctum
         laravel JWT

Question 68 : What is laravel Mix?
Answer : A tool for manageing assets (css , js)

Question 69 : How do you Enable laravel's mainteanace mode?
Answer : php artisan down

Question 70 : How do you exit mainteanace mode?
Answer : php artisan up

Question 71 : What command optimizec class loading in laravel ?
Answer : php artisan optimize
        - Analyze and modifies code to improve its performance

Question 72 : What is laravel Livewire?
Answer : A full-stack framework for building dynamic interfaces with PHP

Question 73 : What is the difference between first() and find() in Eloquent?
Answer : first() retrieve the first record matching a query, while find() retrieve a model by primary key.

Question 74 : What is the difference between soft database and hard database ?
Answer : soft deletes mark record as deleted without removing them, while hard deletes permanently delete records

Question 75 : What is Laravel's Broadcasting feature used for?
Answer : Real-time event Broadcasting using WebSockets.

Question 76 : What is the difference between groupBy() and chunk() in Eloquent ?
Answer groupBy() group records based on a column, while chunk() retrieve records in smaller portions

Question 77 : What is mutator in laravel?
Answer : A mutator in laravel is a method used to modify an attribute before saving it to the database.

Question 78 : How do you encrypt and decrypt data in laravel?
Answer : Using Crypt::encrypt() and Crypt::decrypt()

Question 79 : What is the default session driver in laravel?
Answer : file

Question 80 : Which method is used to retrieve a configuration value in laravel?
Answer : config()

Question 81 : Which command is used to run database migration in laravel?
Answer : php artisan migrate

Question 82 : Which method is used to define a route that responds to multiple HTTP verbs in laravel?
Answer : Route::match()

Question 83 : In laravel, what does the nullable validation rule indicate ?
Answer : The field is optional and can be null

Question 84 : What is the purpose of the php artisan config:cache command in laravel?
Answer : Cache the configuration files for faster performance.

Question 85 : Which file in laravel  contains the application's main configuration setting?
Answer :  config/app.php

Question 86 : Which of the following statements correctly describes the use of the any route method in laravel?
Answer : The any method is used to define a route that responds to all HTTP request methods.

Question 87 : How can you pass data to a view from a controller in laravel?
Answer : Use the compact() function to pass an array of data to the view.
         use the with() method to attach variable to the view.
         use the view() helper function and pass data as an associative array.

Question 88 : What is an accessor in laravel?
Answer : An accessor in laravel is a method used to transform an Eloquent attribute when retrieving it from the database.

Question 89 : Which primary design pattern does laravel follow?
Answer : Model-View_controller (MVC)

Question 90 : Does laravel follow the object-oriented approach?
Answer : Yes

Question 91 : All dependencies are specified in the ___file, which is located in the source folder?
Answer : composer.json

Question 92 : What is the primary purpose of using views in laravel ?
Answer : To seprate the presentation layer from business logic

Question 93 : Rest API method name ?
Answer : PUT, POST, DELETE , GET

Question 94 : What is database seeding in laravel ?
Answer : The process of populating the database with sample data

Question 95 : Can you use raw PHP tags() inside a laravel Blade template?
Answer : Yes, but it is discouraged

Question 96 : What is the purpose of a controller in laravel ?
Answer : To handle Http requests and responses

Question 97 : What is the primary purpose of session in laravel ?
Answer : Storing temporary data across multiple requests

Question 98 : What is the purpose of a flash session in laravel?
Answer : To store data temporary for the next request only

Question 99 : How many main types of middleware exist in laravel?
Answer : 2

Question 100 : Which middleware is applied to all HTTP requests in laravel ?
Answer : Global middleware
